README.md, before:

This project was bootstrapped with [DHIS2 Application Platform](https://github.com/dhis2/app-platform).

## Project Focus

We are building an **offline-first** DHIS2 web application aimed at tablet usage by school inspectors. All inspection workflows must function without connectivity; when online, the app will synchronise cached inspections and enrich comparisons with the latest DHIS2 data.

## 📚 Documentation

All technical documentation is in the [`docs/`](./docs/) folder:

- **[DHIS2 Sync Guide](./docs/dhis2-sync-guide.md)** - Complete guide for implementing DHIS2 sync
- **[Sync Implementation Example](./docs/sync-implementation-example.md)** - Working code examples
- **[Data Mappings](./docs/data-mappings.json)** - JSON configuration for local↔DHIS2 mapping
- **[Architecture](./docs/architecture.md)** - App architecture overview
- **[All Docs](./docs/README.md)** - Full documentation index

### Quick Start for Developers

```typescript
// Sync inspection to DHIS2
import { useSyncInspection } from './services/sync/useSyncInspection';

const { syncInspection } = useSyncInspection();
const eventId = await syncInspection(inspection);
```

See [docs/sync-implementation-example.md](./docs/sync-implementation-example.md) for complete implementation.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### npx dhis-portal --target=https://data.research.dhis2.org/in5320/

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

You can log into this instance with the credentials:
Username: admin
Password: district

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner and runs all available tests found in `/src`.<br />

See the section about [running tests](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/test) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
A deployable `.zip` file can be found in `build/bundle`!

See the section about [building](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/build) for more information.

### `yarn deploy`

Deploys the built app in the `build` folder to a running DHIS2 instance.<br />
This command will prompt you to enter a server URL as well as the username and password of a DHIS2 user with the App Management authority.<br/>
You must run `yarn build` before running `yarn deploy`.<br />

See the section about [deploying](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/deploy) for more information.

## Learn More

You can learn more about the platform in the [DHIS2 Application Platform Documentation](https://platform.dhis2.nu/).

You can learn more about the runtime in the [DHIS2 Application Runtime Documentation](https://runtime.dhis2.nu/).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

## Selected requirements 

We selected requirement 3 (school resource count) and requirement 5 (offline features). All design and development decisions must support inspectors who operate with no connectivity during school visits.

Commit message:

POST inspections when form is filled

README.md, after:

This project was bootstrapped with [DHIS2 Application Platform](https://github.com/dhis2/app-platform).

## Project Focus

We are building an **offline-first** DHIS2 web application aimed at tablet usage by school inspectors. All inspection workflows must function without connectivity; when online, the app will synchronise cached inspections and enrich comparisons with the latest DHIS2 data.

## 📚 Documentation

All technical documentation is in the [`docs/`](./docs/) folder:

- **[DHIS2 Sync Guide](./docs/dhis2-sync-guide.md)** - Complete guide for implementing DHIS2 sync
- **[Sync Implementation Example](./docs/sync-implementation-example.md)** - Working code examples
- **[Data Mappings](./docs/data-mappings.json)** - JSON configuration for local↔DHIS2 mapping
- **[Architecture](./docs/architecture.md)** - App architecture overview
- **[All Docs](./docs/README.md)** - Full documentation index

### Quick Start for Developers

```typescript
// Sync inspection to DHIS2
import { useSyncInspection } from './services/sync/useSyncInspection';

const { syncInspection } = useSyncInspection();
const eventId = await syncInspection(inspection);
```

See [docs/sync-implementation-example.md](./docs/sync-implementation-example.md) for complete implementation.

## DHIS2 Instance Credentials

**Development/Testing Instance**: `https://research.im.dhis2.org/in5320g16/`

**API Credentials:**
- **Username**: `in5320`
- **Password**: `P1@tform`

These credentials are used for:
- Logging into the DHIS2 instance during development
- API requests to create/update inspection events
- Fetching organization units (schools) for the inspection form

**Note**: The DHIS2 App Platform automatically handles authentication when you run `yarn start` and log in. All API calls made through `useDataEngine()` will use your logged-in session.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

**Login with these credentials:**
- **Username**: `in5320`
- **Password**: `P1@tform`

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner and runs all available tests found in `/src`.<br />

See the section about [running tests](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/test) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
A deployable `.zip` file can be found in `build/bundle`!

See the section about [building](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/build) for more information.

### `yarn deploy`

Deploys the built app in the `build` folder to a running DHIS2 instance.<br />
This command will prompt you to enter a server URL as well as the username and password of a DHIS2 user with the App Management authority.<br/>
You must run `yarn build` before running `yarn deploy`.<br />

See the section about [deploying](https://platform.dhis2.nu/#/scripts/deploy) for more information.

## Learn More

You can learn more about the platform in the [DHIS2 Application Platform Documentation](https://platform.dhis2.nu/).

You can learn more about the runtime in the [DHIS2 Application Runtime Documentation](https://runtime.dhis2.nu/).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

## Selected requirements 

We selected requirement 3 (school resource count) and requirement 5 (offline features). All design and development decisions must support inspectors who operate with no connectivity during school visits.
